


Glass
A fractured fairy tale by Emily Short
Release 1 / Serial number 200513 / Inform 7 build 6M62 (I6/v6.34 lib 6/12N) SD



The Prince sits awkwardly on the couch, holding his glass slipper and trying to keep it from crushing. Lucinda and Theodora have the ends of the same couch, and they are taking turns seeing who can bend lowest and show off the most cleavage; while the old lady, in her wing chair, carries on about nonsense. For instance:

"Do tell me about your father's health," she says, leaning toward the Prince. "Is he still ailing? Has the Spanish doctor been able to do anything for him?"

The Prince looks uncomfortable: this line of reason leads directly to the problem of heirs. "I believe so, madam," he replies, with a bit of constraint.

>T KING
"Squaw-awk!" you say. "The king's health! The king's health!"

The Prince glances your way and offers you a small, smiling salute.

"It's so fortunate," says the old lady. "That you're of an age -- that is, that the King has been so blessed with an heir who can follow in his footsteps when the time comes, which we all hope will be--"

Realizing she has led herself into a diplomatic difficulty, she sighs. "God has truly blessed our little kingdom."

>T GOD
"God!" you exclaim. All eyes turn slowly towards you.

"Heavens," says the Prince mildly. "A pet with theological leanings. How unusual. You're most fortunate in your domesticated animals, madam."

The old lady gives you a long, narrow-eyed look. Apparently she does not share the Prince's feelings on that topic.

"Now I have heard a rumor," says the old lady, pretending that this conversation topic just now occurred to her, rather than being the object of her determined pursuit for the last half hour. "A rumor that you yourself were planning to wed, in the very near future."

Theodora leans closer to the Prince, who tucks his hands more protectively around the slipper.

"There are a great many rumors," he says.

>T RUMORS
"Awwk!" you say. "The marriage! The marriage!"

"Don't mind our parrot," says the lady, smiling at the Prince. "It has very bad manners."

The Prince glances at you. "I imagine any manners at all would be above average for a bird."

Lucinda smirks.

"It's true, you know, that my father threw the ball in the hope that I would-- that is, that it would lead to a greater acquaintance--" The Prince stops again, rattled, and glares down at the small shoe cradled in his hands. "I had not been very attentive to ladies in my youth."

The old lady looks very strange at that remark. "Well-- my dear boy--" she begins. "I am glad you feel comfortable-- that is, I will not mention-- if you feel you prefer--"

He blinks thick girlish lashes, and you see why she is worried. "No, I didn't mean that I have a preference for boys, madam," he remarks, more at his ease now that she is uncomfortable. "Only that I have been very much occupied with other concerns, and not..."

He gestures. The shoe almost slips off its pillow. He catches it just in time.

>Z
You hold your peace.

"I'm sure it's nothing surprising," remarks the old lady, "if you didn't meet anyone at the ball that you felt immediately you could marry. Such short acquaintances... there's much more to an alliance than that. One must feel at ease with the family, for instance."

The Prince opens his mouth, then closes it again. "I did meet someone," he admits. "But I know nothing of her family. It hardly matters to me, however. It will be the woman who can wear this shoe." 

The old woman laughs slightly. "How beautifully romantic! But -- she didn't give you her name?"

The Prince shakes his head, looking embarrassed again.

"...but you would recognize her, at least," the lady says, looking down carefully at her hands folded on her skirt. "As soon as you saw her face--"

"I can't be sure," the Prince replies.

There is a thick silence. The old lady frowns, suggesting very rapid and dangerous thought. Theodora lies back against the pillows, interested in the story and too stupid to realize it has to do with her. Lucinda-- but Lucinda's thoughts are always the hardest to read.

>T BALL
"Squawk!" you say. "The ball!"

"It wasn't a masked ball," the old lady says. "It wasn't even badly lit. Your father did not stint on the candles at all."

The Prince opens his mouth.

"Oh, dear, dear, I am being odiously prying. I'm so sorry. Perhaps you met this young lady out on the terrace..." She trails off, suggesting the very faintest disapproval of young ladies who linger on terraces, out of sight of chaperones, to hold conversations with Princes, and never tell their names.

"I met her in candlelight," says the Prince, goaded. "But she left me at midnight."

The effect of this comment is like the shattering of glass: for a moment you wonder if he dropped the shoe...? No. It is merely that he has admitted, or near-as-admitted, that his chosen bride is one who appeared to him under a glamor, a magical enchantment. A crime punishable by death under his father's law.

Everyone remains very very quiet.

>T MAGIC
"Awk!" you say. "Magic! Magic!"

The Prince's eye goes to you. "Your bird, madam, is freakishly percipient. Positively unnatural."

"Yes," she says. "Though I promise you it arrived in that condition and was not made so by anyone in this house." She sighs. "You are in a difficult situation," says the old lady. "You are too intelligent not to have considered the problem thoroughly, and all the risks involved in choosing someone under those circumstances."

Lucinda's lips tighten. "Magic is abhorrent to God," she says.

"That is certainly the opinion of some," the old lady agrees. "I myself wonder whether He would have encompassed in His creation any power which He considered wholly evil. But that is a private philosophy, and does not excuse a violation of the law." She glances at the Prince. "Forgive me: I stray from your problem."

>T LUCINDA
"Squaw-awk!" you say. "Lucinda!"

"Might as well start there as anywhere," says the Prince, shrugging. "Miss Lucinda, would you mind trying the slipper? You needn't -- that is, please do not regard this in the nature of a royal request, if you would rather not."

The old lady catches Lucinda's eye, and jerks her head slightly: a command.

"It would be a pleasure," Lucinda says, though her eyes cloud a little as the Prince kneels at her feet and begins to untie the laces of her boot. Theodora watches the proceedings curiously. 

The old lady folds her hands in her lap.

>Z
You hold your peace.

The Prince tugs at the bootlaces. "I do apologize," he says breathlessly. "I'm afraid I am not used to undoing ladies" shoes."

"It is quite all right," says Lucinda, warming slightly.

>Z
You walk down to the other end of the perch.

The Prince removes the boot and sets it aside. "There," he says, smiling up into Lucinda's face. "You have the dubious honor of being first, you see. By the time I have checked the five-hundredth maiden I will be quite proficient at this."

She chuckles. "Let us hope you are not put to so much trouble."

They both seem to become aware at the same moment that he is clasping her ankle in an unseemly fashion. He lets go.

The old lady looks like a cat.

>X LUCINDA
More compact than Theodora, and with more self-control.

The Prince picks up the shoe and holds it up, and Lucinda slides her stockinged foot in easily.

The Prince stares at the shoe. Then he looks up. "You?" he repeats. "I mean -- you seemed -- I thought for certain that you weren't -- the way you -- I thought you would be good practice because--"

Lucinda smiles, a strange, sad smile. "My love," she whispers.

Something is wrong. Lucinda's hand is clenched, her nails digging into the pillow where only you can see. You smell blood.

>X BLOOD
You can't see any such thing.

>Z
You hold your peace. A smile grows across the old lady's face.

>Z
You hold your peace. A smile grows across the old lady's face.

The Prince gives a great sigh and puts his head down on Lucinda's lap. "I was sure I wouldn't find you," he says. "It seemed impossible."

She exchanges a glance, over his head, with the old lady.

"You have me now," she says, and puts her hand on the back of his neck. He does not ask, perhaps because he does not dare, why she did not explain herself sooner. And so they sit for a long moment, while Theodora slips out of the room, and the old lady rings for brandy...



    *** Lucinda and the Prince are married ***



Would you like to RESTART, RESTORE a saved game, QUIT, or UNDO the last command?
> 