


Glass
A fractured fairy tale by Emily Short
Release 1 / Serial number 200513 / Inform 7 build 6M62 (I6/v6.34 lib 6/12N) SD



The Prince sits awkwardly on the couch, holding his glass slipper and trying to keep it from crushing. Lucinda and Theodora have the ends of the same couch, and they are taking turns seeing who can bend lowest and show off the most cleavage; while the old lady, in her wing chair, carries on about nonsense. For instance:

"Do tell me about your father's health," she says, leaning toward the Prince. "Is he still ailing? Has the Spanish doctor been able to do anything for him?"

The Prince looks uncomfortable: this line of reason leads directly to the problem of heirs. "I believe so, madam," he replies, with a bit of constraint.

>T KING
"Squaw-awk!" you say. "The king's health! The king's health!"

The Prince glances your way and offers you a small, smiling salute.

"It's so fortunate," says the old lady. "That you're of an age -- that is, that the King has been so blessed with an heir who can follow in his footsteps when the time comes, which we all hope will be--"

Realizing she has led herself into a diplomatic difficulty, she sighs. "God has truly blessed our little kingdom."

>T GOD
"God!" you exclaim. All eyes turn slowly towards you.

"Heavens," says the Prince mildly. "A pet with theological leanings. How unusual. You're most fortunate in your domesticated animals, madam."

The old lady gives you a long, narrow-eyed look. Apparently she does not share the Prince's feelings on that topic.

"Now I have heard a rumor," says the old lady, pretending that this conversation topic just now occurred to her, rather than being the object of her determined pursuit for the last half hour. "A rumor that you yourself were planning to wed, in the very near future."

Theodora leans closer to the Prince, who tucks his hands more protectively around the slipper.

"There are a great many rumors," he says.

>T RUMORS
"Awwk!" you say. "The marriage! The marriage!"

"Don't mind our parrot," says the lady, smiling at the Prince. "It has very bad manners."

The Prince glances at you. "I imagine any manners at all would be above average for a bird."

Lucinda smirks.

"It's true, you know, that my father threw the ball in the hope that I would-- that is, that it would lead to a greater acquaintance--" The Prince stops again, rattled, and glares down at the small shoe cradled in his hands. "I had not been very attentive to ladies in my youth."

The old lady looks very strange at that remark. "Well-- my dear boy--" she begins. "I am glad you feel comfortable-- that is, I will not mention-- if you feel you prefer--"

He blinks thick girlish lashes, and you see why she is worried. "No, I didn't mean that I have a preference for boys, madam," he remarks, more at his ease now that she is uncomfortable. "Only that I have been very much occupied with other concerns, and not..."

He gestures. The shoe almost slips off its pillow. He catches it just in time.

>Z
You hold your peace.

"I'm sure it's nothing surprising," remarks the old lady, "if you didn't meet anyone at the ball that you felt immediately you could marry. Such short acquaintances... there's much more to an alliance than that. One must feel at ease with the family, for instance."

The Prince opens his mouth, then closes it again. "I did meet someone," he admits. "But I know nothing of her family. It hardly matters to me, however. It will be the woman who can wear this shoe." 

The old woman laughs slightly. "How beautifully romantic! But -- she didn't give you her name?"

The Prince shakes his head, looking embarrassed again.

"...but you would recognize her, at least," the lady says, looking down carefully at her hands folded on her skirt. "As soon as you saw her face--"

"I can't be sure," the Prince replies.

There is a thick silence. The old lady frowns, suggesting very rapid and dangerous thought. Theodora lies back against the pillows, interested in the story and too stupid to realize it has to do with her. Lucinda-- but Lucinda's thoughts are always the hardest to read.

>T BALL
"Squawk!" you say. "The ball!"

"It wasn't a masked ball," the old lady says. "It wasn't even badly lit. Your father did not stint on the candles at all."

The Prince opens his mouth.

"Oh, dear, dear, I am being odiously prying. I'm so sorry. Perhaps you met this young lady out on the terrace..." She trails off, suggesting the very faintest disapproval of young ladies who linger on terraces, out of sight of chaperones, to hold conversations with Princes, and never tell their names.

"I met her in candlelight," says the Prince, goaded. "But she left me at midnight."

The effect of this comment is like the shattering of glass: for a moment you wonder if he dropped the shoe...? No. It is merely that he has admitted, or near-as-admitted, that his chosen bride is one who appeared to him under a glamor, a magical enchantment. A crime punishable by death under his father's law.

Everyone remains very very quiet.

>T MAGIC
"Awk!" you say. "Magic! Magic!"

The Prince's eye goes to you. "Your bird, madam, is freakishly percipient. Positively unnatural."

"Yes," she says. "Though I promise you it arrived in that condition and was not made so by anyone in this house." She sighs. "You are in a difficult situation," says the old lady. "You are too intelligent not to have considered the problem thoroughly, and all the risks involved in choosing someone under those circumstances."

Lucinda's lips tighten. "Magic is abhorrent to God," she says.

"That is certainly the opinion of some," the old lady agrees. "I myself wonder whether He would have encompassed in His creation any power which He considered wholly evil. But that is a private philosophy, and does not excuse a violation of the law." She glances at the Prince. "Forgive me: I stray from your problem."

>T CINDERELLA
"Awwwk!" you say. "Cinderella!"

There is the crack of a summoning: and there she stands, in the doorway, the secret daughter, the enchantress.

"May I present my third daughter," says the old lady, very dryly.

The Prince fumbles to his feet.

"Do you recognize her?" the old lady asks.

"I-- we've never met," says the Prince, looking puzzled. "I would have thought, as long as I have known your family, I would have--"

"She likes to keep to herself. Except, of course, when she surprises us all, and goes out. Come in, Cinderella," says the lady. Lucinda squirms on the sofa.

And in she walks, looking a little as though she has just been woken. The color rises in her cheeks when she looks at the Prince.

>T BALL
"Awwk!" you say. "The ball! The ball!"

The Prince frowns at Cinderella. "I don't recall seeing you at the ball."

"No?" she asks, with that funny triangular smile of hers. "We were introduced. Perhaps I did not make an impression."

He frowns, and you can see that he is considering asking her to try the shoe. The silence is sharp. But he realizes -- or does he? -- that her face is wrong.

She waits.

>T FACE
"Awwk!" you say. "The marriage!"

"I held the ball to look for someone to-- someone that I might marry," the Prince explains to Cinderella.

"I went looking for the same thing," she says, tilting her head, the way you would. "And did you find what you were looking for?"

"I am not sure," he says. "Did you?"

"He has not told me yet," Cinderella answers.

>T LOVE
"Squawk!" you say. "Love!"

The Prince and Cinderella both look up at you. Cinderella puts one little finger to her lips, and winks, but you are afraid.

"I met someone at the ball," he says, after a minute. "I felt for her. I thought to recognize her again by her shoe."

Cinderella tilts her head and looks at the shoe. "If that is the only way you can identify her, I think you are better off avoiding such a wife, hm?"

The Prince frowns at Cinderella a little longer, then seems to reach some decision.

"This business of the shoe is nonsense," he remarks. "I've no business to be choosing a wife so arbitrarily."

"And all your heirs would have such small feet," Theodora contributes.

"Yes, that would be-- terrible," the Prince says. "In fact, I think--" He turns and hurls the slipper against the wall, where it splinters into dozens of sparkling pieces. There is a great sigh in the room, and the old lady actually laughs.

The Prince's gaze lingers on Cinderella. She looks back at him, her chin tilted up. "There are things my father need not know. Though I also would not lie to him about anything that I knew for certain."

"A commendable attitude," says the old lady briskly. "And now I am having a brandy. Would anyone else care for a nip?"



    *** Cinderella and the Prince are (eventually) wed ***



Would you like to RESTART, RESTORE a saved game, QUIT, or UNDO the last command?
> 