


Glass
A fractured fairy tale by Emily Short
Release 1 / Serial number 200513 / Inform 7 build 6M62 (I6/v6.34 lib 6/12N) SD



The Prince sits awkwardly on the couch, holding his glass slipper and trying to keep it from crushing. Lucinda and Theodora have the ends of the same couch, and they are taking turns seeing who can bend lowest and show off the most cleavage; while the old lady, in her wing chair, carries on about nonsense. For instance:

"Do tell me about your father's health," she says, leaning toward the Prince. "Is he still ailing? Has the Spanish doctor been able to do anything for him?"

The Prince looks uncomfortable: this line of reason leads directly to the problem of heirs. "I believe so, madam," he replies, with a bit of constraint.

>T KING
"Squaw-awk!" you say. "The king's health! The king's health!"

The Prince glances your way and offers you a small, smiling salute.

"It's so fortunate," says the old lady. "That you're of an age -- that is, that the King has been so blessed with an heir who can follow in his footsteps when the time comes, which we all hope will be--"

Realizing she has led herself into a diplomatic difficulty, she sighs. "God has truly blessed our little kingdom."

>T GOD
"God!" you exclaim. All eyes turn slowly towards you.

"Heavens," says the Prince mildly. "A pet with theological leanings. How unusual. You're most fortunate in your domesticated animals, madam."

The old lady gives you a long, narrow-eyed look. Apparently she does not share the Prince's feelings on that topic.

"Now I have heard a rumor," says the old lady, pretending that this conversation topic just now occurred to her, rather than being the object of her determined pursuit for the last half hour. "A rumor that you yourself were planning to wed, in the very near future."

Theodora leans closer to the Prince, who tucks his hands more protectively around the slipper.

"There are a great many rumors," he says.

>T RUMORS
"Awwk!" you say. "The marriage! The marriage!"

"Don't mind our parrot," says the lady, smiling at the Prince. "It has very bad manners."

The Prince glances at you. "I imagine any manners at all would be above average for a bird."

Lucinda smirks.

"It's true, you know, that my father threw the ball in the hope that I would-- that is, that it would lead to a greater acquaintance--" The Prince stops again, rattled, and glares down at the small shoe cradled in his hands. "I had not been very attentive to ladies in my youth."

The old lady looks very strange at that remark. "Well-- my dear boy--" she begins. "I am glad you feel comfortable-- that is, I will not mention-- if you feel you prefer--"

He blinks thick girlish lashes, and you see why she is worried. "No, I didn't mean that I have a preference for boys, madam," he remarks, more at his ease now that she is uncomfortable. "Only that I have been very much occupied with other concerns, and not..."

He gestures. The shoe almost slips off its pillow. He catches it just in time.

>Z
You hold your peace.

"I'm sure it's nothing surprising," remarks the old lady, "if you didn't meet anyone at the ball that you felt immediately you could marry. Such short acquaintances... there's much more to an alliance than that. One must feel at ease with the family, for instance."

The Prince opens his mouth, then closes it again. "I did meet someone," he admits. "But I know nothing of her family. It hardly matters to me, however. It will be the woman who can wear this shoe." 

The old woman laughs slightly. "How beautifully romantic! But -- she didn't give you her name?"

The Prince shakes his head, looking embarrassed again.

"...but you would recognize her, at least," the lady says, looking down carefully at her hands folded on her skirt. "As soon as you saw her face--"

"I can't be sure," the Prince replies.

There is a thick silence. The old lady frowns, suggesting very rapid and dangerous thought. Theodora lies back against the pillows, interested in the story and too stupid to realize it has to do with her. Lucinda-- but Lucinda's thoughts are always the hardest to read.

>T BALL
"Squawk!" you say. "The ball!"

"It wasn't a masked ball," the old lady says. "It wasn't even badly lit. Your father did not stint on the candles at all."

The Prince opens his mouth.

"Oh, dear, dear, I am being odiously prying. I'm so sorry. Perhaps you met this young lady out on the terrace..." She trails off, suggesting the very faintest disapproval of young ladies who linger on terraces, out of sight of chaperones, to hold conversations with Princes, and never tell their names.

"I met her in candlelight," says the Prince, goaded. "But she left me at midnight."

The effect of this comment is like the shattering of glass: for a moment you wonder if he dropped the shoe...? No. It is merely that he has admitted, or near-as-admitted, that his chosen bride is one who appeared to him under a glamor, a magical enchantment. A crime punishable by death under his father's law.

Everyone remains very very quiet.

>T MAGIC
"Awk!" you say. "Magic! Magic!"

The Prince's eye goes to you. "Your bird, madam, is freakishly percipient. Positively unnatural."

"Yes," she says. "Though I promise you it arrived in that condition and was not made so by anyone in this house." She sighs. "You are in a difficult situation," says the old lady. "You are too intelligent not to have considered the problem thoroughly, and all the risks involved in choosing someone under those circumstances."

Lucinda's lips tighten. "Magic is abhorrent to God," she says.

"That is certainly the opinion of some," the old lady agrees. "I myself wonder whether He would have encompassed in His creation any power which He considered wholly evil. But that is a private philosophy, and does not excuse a violation of the law." She glances at the Prince. "Forgive me: I stray from your problem."

>T CINDERELLA
"Awwwk!" you say. "Cinderella!"

There is the crack of a summoning: and there she stands, in the doorway, the secret daughter, the enchantress.

"May I present my third daughter," says the old lady, very dryly.

The Prince fumbles to his feet.

"Do you recognize her?" the old lady asks.

"I-- we've never met," says the Prince, looking puzzled. "I would have thought, as long as I have known your family, I would have--"

"She likes to keep to herself. Except, of course, when she surprises us all, and goes out. Come in, Cinderella," says the lady. Lucinda squirms on the sofa.

And in she walks, looking a little as though she has just been woken. The color rises in her cheeks when she looks at the Prince.

>X CINDERELLA
She has a curious pointed chin, and a mouth that is too narrow, but there is a captivating quality about her as well.

There is a long thoughtful silence. The Prince frowns at Cinderella. "I don't recall seeing you at the ball."

"No?" she asks, with that funny triangular smile of hers. "We were introduced. Perhaps I did not make an impression."

He frowns, and you can see that he is considering asking her to try the shoe. The silence is sharp. But he realizes -- or does he? -- that her face is wrong.

She waits.

>Z
You hold your peace.

"Would you mind trying this shoe?" the Prince asks, quite politely. 

She nods, and takes the glass slipper from his hand.

"Don't," says the old lady, reaching for her wrist; missing. "They can't-- without proof they won't..."

Cinderella puts it on, turning her ankle to watch the effect. The change sweeps up through her, making her taller, more perfect, almost inhumanly beautiful.

The Prince drops his hand.

"You need not have done that," he says. "You could have broken it. Lied to me. Remained hidden." His jaw works. "Didn't you understand that--"

"She understands," says the old lady, rising from her chair. "I told her. We all told her. She hoped that you would understand her secret but have the wit not to put her to the test." Her fingers dig into the chairback. "I'm afraid the rest of us -- not being in love with you, you see -- we had less faith in your intuition. We thought perhaps we might distract you with one of the other two. One of the plainly... non-magical ones."

The Prince swallows. He is crying: not very man-like. "You see I cannot conceal this; it would be treason, now I have seen this witchcraft with my own eyes..."

Cinderella backs away. "I have no truck with devils," she says. "I was gifted or cursed in my nature, that is all. I cannot make it go away -- the power remains with me."

"It's true," says Lucinda. "We poured holy water on her every day for a year."

"But the law," says the Prince.

"You're an idiot," says the old lady. "You knew what you might find. If you loved her at all, you would not have come looking."



    *** Cinderella is executed ***



Would you like to RESTART, RESTORE a saved game, QUIT, or UNDO the last command?
> 